To: rocky@ap.org
Subject: Newsbrief
Date: Mon, 19 Jan 1998 10:32:21 -0400 (EDT)

^*1000< ^AP-NewsBrief<,0770<
 
^AP Top News at 8 a.m. EST<<
 
^Monday, Jan. 19, 1998<<
 
6 
 
	U.N. Chief Arrives in Baghdad %mlink(STRY:V0858; PHOTO: ; AUDIO: %)
 

	BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) _ Chief U.N. inspector Richard Butler arrived in
Baghdad 
today for new talks with the Iraqi leadership about allowing his weapons 
teams to do their work. Butler discounted Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's 
warning that the inspectors would have to complete their work by May 20. 
The visit comes as Iraq stepped up preparations for a possible military 
confrontation. Iraqi officials, fearing an American military strike, urged 
residents yesterday to volunteer for weapons training.
 
6 
 
	5 U.S. Students Raped in Guatemala %mlink(STRY:V0827; PHOTO:;
AUDIO:4%)
 

	GUATEMALA CITY (AP) _ Officials say two men are in custody today in
connection 
with the assault of a group of visiting American students. Police say 
gunmen on Friday ambushed a bus carrying 16 women from St. Mary's College 
in Maryland. The group _ three teachers and 13 students _ was on an
educational 
tour of historic and cultural sites in Guatemala City. Police say five 
of the women were raped and all were robbed. The women who were attacked 
were treated at a Guatemalan hospital and returned to the United States 
Saturday. The rest of the group came home last night.
 
6 
 
	U.S. Warns China on Iran Trade %mlink(STRY:V0868; PHOTO: ; AUDIO:
%)
 

	BEIJING (AP) _ Defense Secretary William Cohen today warned China
that 
providing weapons technology to Iran could have a damaging political effect 
on China's relations with the United States and the West. Cohen said
China's 
defense minister assured him that China would not export anti-ship cruise 
missiles or nuclear technology to Iran. The United States fears Iran is 
developing a nuclear weapons capability. Earlier, Cohen signed a U.S.-China 
agreement designed to avoid conflicts at sea.
 
6 
 
	Nation Honors Martin Luther King %mlink(STRY:V0859; PHOTO: ;
AUDIO:33%)
 

	ATLANTA (AP) _ Prayers and marches are planned across the nation
today 
to honor slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. Vice President 
Al Gore planned to visit the Atlanta church where the Rev. King once
preached, 
reportedly to announce a civil rights initiative the Clinton administration 
will present to Congress. The proposal would raise civil rights spending 
from $516 million to $602 million in the 1999 budget, the Atlanta
Journal-Constitution 
and the Los Angeles Times reported today.
 
6 
 
	Netanyahu Heads to Washington %mlink(STRY:V0834; PHOTO:; AUDIO:22%)
 

	JERUSALEM (AP) _ Prime Minister Netanyahu will tell President
Clinton 
that Israel cannot withdraw from more than 9 percent of the West Bank 
in the next troop pullback, a senior Cabinet minister said today. Netanyahu 
left for Washington today with Israeli media saying Clinton at their
meeting 
tomorrow will seek a "double-digit" withdrawal _ 12 percent to 15 percent. 
Yasser Arafat yesterday said the Palestinians would get a state no matter 
what Israel did and warned of the possibility of riots and violence similar 
to the intefadeh that began in 1987.
 
6 
 
	'Titanic' Wins Four Golden Globes %mlink(STRY:V0836; PHOTO:XBH101;
AUDIO:91%)
 

	BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. (AP) _ "Titanic" steamed to multiple honors
at 
the Golden Globe awards last night. The big-budget epic won best dramatic 
picture, best original score and best song. James Cameron won best director 
for the film, reported to cost more than $200 million. Among television 
winners, "Ally McBeal" beat out "Seinfeld" and "Frasier" for best comedy.
 

6 
 
	Asian Stocks Rise Sharply %mlink(STRY:V0877; PHOTO:; AUDIO:%)
 
	HONG KONG (AP) _ Asian markets were sharply higher today following
U.S. 
and IMF efforts to stem the area's financial crisis. Stocks in Thailand, 
where the Asian crisis began, rose nearly 10 percent for the best gain 
in the region. Indonesian stocks were up 6 percent but the currency, the 
rupiah, was off 9 percent. After a volatile last week, Hong Kong stocks 
were up nearly 6 percent today as interbank interest rates eased and other 
overseas markets gained. Tokyo markets were up more than 1 percent.
 
6 
 
	Tennessee Remains No. 1 in AP Women's Poll %mlink(STRY:V0862;
PHOTO:; 
AUDIO:%)
 
	NEW YORK (AP) _ Tennessee swept all 39 first-place votes to remain
No. 
1 in the Associated Press' women's college basketball poll. The Lady Vols 
have been the top-ranked team in the nation for the past nine weeks. Old 
Dominion (14-0) remained second and was followed by Connecticut (16-1), 
Louisiana Tech (14-2) and Texas Tech (12-2).
 
6 
 
	AP NewsBrief by VINCENT CINISOMO
 



